# Credit-Card-Analysis-Using-Power-BI

### Dashboard Link : 

## Project Objectives:
This Power Bi Dashboard's goal is to analyze the dataset and produce a thorough report that the stakeholder may utilize to get understanding.

By levearging the insights provided , stakeholder can identify patterns on credit card usage,enabling them to optimise their feature to potentially increase revenue.


##  About Dataset:

Prior to proceeding with the project, I would like to discuss the following dataset: 

* An American Credit Card Transaction Dataset been used, using information from January 2023 to December 2023.
* Two datasets were supplied by the company for analytical purposes. Excel sheets "Credit_Card.xls" and "Customer.xls" make up the dataset. These datasets include crucial data on credit card transactions and client information.

## Data Descriptons:
### Credit_Card.xls

The data fields of the dataset that was provided are described as follows:

* Client_Num: An individual number that is given to every client or customer.
* Card_Category: The credit card's category, such as Blue, Gold, or Platinum.
* Annual Fees: The credit card's yearly charge. *Activation_30_Days: A zero-or one-digit indicator indicating if the card was activated within thirty days of being issued.
* Customer_Acq_Cost: The price paid to obtain the client.
* Week_Start_Date: The beginning date of the week that the information relates to.
* Week_Num: The week that the data entry is associated with.
* Qtr: Quarter (Q1, Q2, Q3, Q4) of the year.
* Current_year: The year that the information relates to. *Credit_Limit: The maximum amount that the credit card is authorized to be charged.
* Total_Revolving_Bal: The credit card's total amount owed.
* Total_Trans_Amt: The total amount of credit card transactions.
* TransVol Total: The total transaction volume made by the credit card.
* Avg_Utilisation_Ratio: Avg Utilisation Ratio of the Credit Card Balance to the credit limit.
* Use Chip: Indicates whether the credit card transaction was done using a chip or not.
* Interest_Earned : Total Interest Earned by the company
* Exp Type: Type of Expeniture associated with the transaction(eg: Travel,Expenditure)

### Customer.xls

The data fields of the dataset that was provided are described as follows:

* Client_Num: An individual number that is given to every client or customer.
* Customer_Age: Age of the customer
* Gender: Gender of the customer (M for Male and F for Female)
* Dependent_Count: Number of dependents the customer is having on credit card
* Education_Level: Education Qualification of the Customer.
* Martial_Status: Martial Status of the customer(Single,Married, Divorced)
* State_Cd: State code where the customer resides
* Zipcode: The pincode of the area where the customer resides.
* Car_Owner:Indicating whether the customer own a car or not
* House_Owner: Indicating whether the customer own a house or not
* Personal_Loan: Indicates whether the customer has a personal loan
* Contact: Prefered mode of contact with the customer
* Customer_Job: Occupation or job role of the customer
* Income: Annual income of the customer
* Cust_Satisfaction_Score: Customer satisfation score,based on feedback and survey

## Detailed Explanation:

#### Page One: Transaction

As Evident above, Page One focuses on Customer-Transaction analysis.However,here's a detailed explanation

#### IMPORTANT KPI(KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR):

*  Total Revenue: The total revenue generated is $55M.
*  Transaction Amount: Total Transaction amount is about $46M.
*  Interest Earned: The interest earned is $8M.
*  Total Transaction(Count): The total number of transaction is 660K

#### Revenue By Expenditure Type:

The analysis indicates that the Bill Expenditure generates the highest revenue which is about ($14M), while the Travel Expenditure generate the lowest revenue which is about ($6M)       

#### Revenue By Education Level:

The analysis indicates that the customer who all are graduate uses the credit card and generate the highest revenue i.e ($23M), while doctrate use the credit card in less amount and the revenue that is generated by them i.e ( $2M).

#### Revenue by Customer Job:

The analysis indicates that the buisnessman generates the highest revenue which is about ($18M) , followed by white-collar jobholders($10M), and self-employed individuals($8M).

#### Revenue by Card Category:

A analysis have been display revenue generated by different card category. From the display we have seen that the Blue category generate the highest revenue ($47M), followed by Silver ($6M), Gold ($3M).

#### TABLE REPRESENTATION

A analysis have been display revenue generated by different card category, along with the total revenue of each card category, total_tansaction_amount,total_interest_earned.
Hence after proper analysis , we can conclude that the blue card category generate the highest revenue in all the sector.

#### Revenue and Total_Transaction_Count:

This analysis show the revenue generated in each quarter alongside the transaction count . It's found that the Q3 generated the highest revenue , amounting to $14.2M, with the highest transcation count of 166.6k.

#### Revenue by Use Chip:

The analysis indicates that the highest revenue was generated through the swipe use method , totalling $34.9 M , while online transaction contributes the least, amounting to $3.4M

#### SLICER: 

In this transaction report, a slicer has been given that consist of weekly data that can help the stakeholder to look into the weekly data and take the decision by covering all the analysis together.

 
 
 


   
